### Self-Assessment 

Before starting my education at SNHU, I had very little experience in the computer science field. I had always had an interest in the area but never really explored it more than simple things at home tinkering with my computer, this program has made my wish of knowledge in this field more of a reality. I kind of like that I started from nothing coming into the program, it seemed like I was in some way behind most of the time and I felt that it kind of game me drive to try and keep up more maybe. Learning about all of the different languages and how they have progressed in a lot of ways has taught me the value of improvement and innovation. This makes me think of the valuable and important standards within this field, some of which are flexibility and resourcefulness, without such things it would take much longer to improve and progress. Learning about databases, structures, algorithms has opened my mind to how things work in this digital world I find myself thinking about how an application or feature of a website is setup or works. 

### Team Collaboration:
In today’s world especially it is very useful to be able to work remotely when needed, this is one of the great aspects of computer science as a whole. As long as we have access to the internet and a computer we can work from home and given the right setup we can collaborate with teammates to build a large project of any kind. There will always be security risks when working exclusively online, but as I have learned throughout this program as long as you take the proper steps to ensure only those who require access to your project will be able to view/edit it. Being able to link up with your teammates and their portions of the code/project, is amazing helpful with the right environment as you can pull down their section and begin to tie it in to the rest of the project while maintaining the integrity of the main branch when needed. This is one of the most important aspects I have taken from working with a team, paired with proper commenting and any further communication it can hugely streamline building a large project by dividing workload and responsibility. 

### Communicating with Customers:
One of the biggest components of a software development cycle that I have learned in this program would most definitely be communication. Just as important as communicating with a team you are working with, is simply good communication with the customer so as to ensure satisfaction. As customers will know generally what they want a product to be able to do, they often will not know exactly how they want it implemented. When it comes to certain features or functions, this program has taught me that it is important to save/review/test as often as possible. The same idea goes for communication with the customer, the more they are in the loop with how an important feature they request is coming or exactly how it will actually work, it can save tons of time on the back end trying to redo/modify how it actually works. This will also give the customer a more hands on feel to their project’s development, which will be good for both sides of the deal and should ultimately lead to a smoother process. I have also learned that too much hands-on for the customer can also be a bit too much for certain aspects of the team and is why most development strategies suggest a type of lead that will take care of this communication in both directions.

### Data Structures and Algorithms:
This program has done a good job of showcasing the importance of structuring code in such a manner as to ensure efficiency, this coupled with utilizing a proper storage method dependent upon what type of use is required can lead to a much better experience when working on a project. It has also shown the way that a storage method is built can help determine what type or how complex a search algorithm you may need, as it might not be necessary to implement a more complex algorithm if your database isn't very large or is setup in such a way which makes search/sort easy in nature.

### Software Engineering and Databases:
Working through this program has been interesting as it has given opportunity to work with a couple different databases, in which I have had the ability to learn to interact with these databases working out ways of manipulating them as required. This has been a interesting and challenging experience as depending on the database it changes if/how you can manipulate things as you need. I plan to continue to progress in this area as it seems like a very important part of this field in general but also something I plan to move into in my career.

### Security:
This aspect of coding makes a lot of sense to me, only more and more as time goes on and more giant companies have giant data breaches. I also served in the military for quite some time and that has also left a heavy imprint on me in terms of keeping things secure in general. I did learn in this program that many of the major issues and breaches that have occurred over time were either simple brute force attacks which bring down a system which creates a vulnerable state or actual social engineering of some sort was used to garner legitimate login credentials from someone within the organization. This tells me that these types of issues are absolutely preventable, with proper planning or prevention techniques and training breaches and leaks can be kept to a minimum.

### Project Inclusion:
The game plan I had going into this project was to take a dataset we used in CS-260, in which we used a binary search tree to show how efficiency differs based on database type/size and certain types of algorithms. The plan was to utilize this project that began as a C++ product and convert it into a python program, as we did in a similar fashion in another class in this program. The other class utilized a virtual desktop that used Jupyter Notebook to implement a python dashboard setup, for my project in this class I did not have access to this virtual setup any longer, so I had to improvise. So, in general I utilized parts of two separate projects and had to adjust quite a few aspects of both to make my idea come to life.

###[     Link to Chosen Artifact](https://github.com/dosty913/dostyCSePort/tree/gh-pages/Project%20Artifact%20Originals)

My chosen artifact is a combination of multiple pieces from two separate projects from a Data Structures and Algorithms class and a Client/Server Development class.

###[     Link to my Code Review](https://youtu.be/SC0m1rEngxs)

## Enhancements and Reflections:

The artifact that I have chosen for refinement and enhancement in terms of software design and engineering is the BinarySearchTree project from CS-260 Data Structures and Algorithms that I took back in early 2020. I decided to use this project as it seemed like the best choice to meet all the criteria involved, I see a way to tie it together with all three of the enhancement categories. It was originally a C++ project, and I will be converting it into a python product in Visual Studio 2019, as this project can be enhanced and fine-tuned a bit and I think that would be better suited for ease and readability if done in python. These skills will align to CS-499-04 as I will show the ability to use innovative techniques, skills, and tools with an updated and easy to use development environment.

I mentioned in the previous paragraph I have chosen to use the BinarySearchTree project for my enhancements, in terms of algorithms and data structure I plan to restructure the program by creating a separate python module designed for C.R.U.D implementation that is then called into the program. It will be setup to connect to the dataset that requires authentication which gives a security aspect to the program and will allow for actual editing of the dataset whereas before once the program would close it did not save any of the edits performed. These enhancements align with CS-499-03 as well as CS-499-05.

The BinarySearchTree project that I will be enhancing utilizes a dataset in the form of a .csv which I plan to use with MongoDB which requires permissions to access. This will allow the database to be edited properly and provide a better visual representation when performing searches or editing. The program will also be run through a dashboard that will be like one learned from CS-340 Client/Server Development, where there is more of a GUI which will give users a better experience overall.

With all these planned enhancements/updates, I will be using skills that involve designing professional-quality program aspects that better suit users compared to the considerably basic C++ program that it began as. It will also involve updating to a newer easier to read and edit programming language, utilizing a newer development environment that is also more user friendly and will setup for possibly more updates down the road. Updating the program setup to add in security features is a good first step in keeping the right mindset to prevent exploits or vulnerabilities down the line.


## [Enhancement One Reflection:](https://github.com/dosty913/dostyCSePort/tree/gh-pages/Ostrin%20eBids%20Project%20%20Milestone%20Two)
For this enhancement I was working to take a project out of C++ in a development environment we utilized on a virtual machine, brining it out of the virtual environment and make it into a python product using Visual Studio 2019. This was definitely the easiest enhancement I chose for this project as converting from C++ to python at least for this project was not too bad generally. There were more elements to this project that I would be converting but not with languages necessarily but with development environments, in which proved slightly more difficult than I had anticipated.

## [Enhancement Two Reflection:](https://github.com/dosty913/dostyCSePort/tree/gh-pages/Ostrin%20eBids%20Project%20%20Milestone%20Three)
My idea for this enhancement was to bring over the CRUD code we had from the CS-340 class that was used to manipulate an animal shelter dataset, as it also used a system similar to what I wanted for this project. I would be pulling in these functions from a separate python product as it would also be where the login credentials would be utilized to access the Mongodb that we would be using for our dataset for this product. The CRUD functions themselves were not hard to bring in and connect to this program, the difficult part proved to be how exactly parts from enhancement three would tie into the program and give a proper display as required.

## [Enhancement Three Reflection:](https://github.com/dosty913/dostyCSePort/tree/gh-pages/Ostrin%20eBids%20Project%20%20Milestone%20Four)
Bringing all of these enhancements and pieces of these products together would in turn be the idea for my enhancement three, where overall the dataset we used for our CS-260 class which holds information about a bids system at an auction would be put into a Mongodb. I ended up using Mongodb Atlas as it seemed like a easier choice for this project compared to housing the actual database on my personal computer as this way anyone would be able to access it. That combined with a dashboard setup to display and show this information in a graphical interface as opposed to a basic text database format, I had planned more options I wanted that would enable more actual editing possibilities but to be honest I could not get them right in time to turn this in before the class ends. I was trying to implement a menu system that would display with the data with a drop-down system to be able to add/edit/delete information as required, I then went to try and implement a similar system within the data frame that would allow editing without the need for a dropdown system, but with life and time constraints I was only able to implement sorting and deleting. I was on my way to getting these items done but just ran out of time.
